https://labs.hackthebox.com/achievement/machine/3142066/393  (achievement) 

documentation:
1. Executive Summary

The target machine, Fawn, was found to be running an insecurely configured FTP service on port 21. By utilizing standard enumeration tools, we identified the service as vsftpd 3.0.3. The service allowed for an "anonymous" login, which granted access to the internal file system. A sensitive file, flag.txt, was discovered and retrieved, indicating a total compromise of the data stored within the FTP directory.
2. Enumeration and Reconnaissance
2.1. Network Connectivity

To verify connectivity to the target IP (10.129.130.64), an ICMP echo request was sent:

    Command: ping 10.129.130.64

2.2. Service Identification

A targeted Nmap scan was performed to identify open ports and service versions.

    Command: nmap -sV -p 21 10.129.130.64

    Result: Port 21/tcp was found open, running the vsftpd 3.0.3 service.

2.3. Utility Documentation

To understand the available flags for terminal commands (like Nmap or the FTP client), we can reference the help menus.

    Standard Flag: While -h is common, many tools also support help -? to display the command-line help menu.

3. Exploitation: Anonymous FTP Login

The identified service version, vsftpd, is frequently configured to allow anonymous access in testing environments.
3.1. Connection Steps

    Initiate Connection: ftp 10.129.130.64

    Authentication: When prompted for a username, anonymous was entered. The password was left blank (simply pressing Enter).

    Successful Login: The server responded with 230 Login successful.

3.2. Data Exfiltration

Once logged in, the following commands were used to locate and retrieve the flag:

    List Files: ls (identified flag.txt)

    Download File: get flag.txt

    Exit: bye or exit

4. HTB Starting Point: Task Answers (1-11)

The following table summarizes the specific questions required to complete the Fawn module:
Task	Question	Answer
1	What does the 3-letter acronym FTP stand for?	File Transfer Protocol
2	Which port does the FTP service listen on usually?	21
3	What acronym is used for a later protocol designed to provide similar functionality to FTP but securely, as an extension of the SSH protocol?	SFTP
4	What is the command we can use to send an ICMP echo request to test our connection to the target?	ping
5	From your scans, what version is FTP running on the target?	vsftpd 3.0.3
6	From your scans, what OS type is running on the target?	Unix
7	What is the command we need to run in order to display the 'ftp' client help menu?	help -?
8	What is the username that can be used to log into the FTP server without a password?	anonymous
9	What is the command to list all files and directories on the FTP server?	ls
10	What is the command to download a file from the FTP server to your local machine?	get
11	Submit Flag	[Your Unique Flag String]
5. Remediation

    Disable Anonymous Access: Modify the /etc/vsftpd.conf file to set anonymous_enable=NO.

    Use Secure Protocols: Transition from FTP to SFTP or FTPS to ensure that data and credentials are encrypted during transit.

    Implement Strong Access Controls: Ensure all users have unique, complex passwords and are restricted to their specific home directories (Chroot).

