https://labs.hackthebox.com/achievement/machine/3142066/404    (achievement) 


1. Executive Summary

The target was compromised by leveraging a classic information disclosure vulnerability. An insecurely configured FTP server allowed anonymous access to sensitive internal files, which contained valid administrative credentials. These credentials were then used to authenticate to a web management portal and retrieve the system flag.
2. Technical Enumeration

An initial scan identified two primary points of interest:

    Port 21/TCP (FTP): Running vsFTPd 3.0.3 with anonymous login enabled.

    Port 80/TCP (HTTP): Running an Apache web server hosting a corporate storefront and a hidden login portal.

3. Information Leakage (FTP)

The FTP service was found to allow login with the username anonymous and no password.

    Discovery: A manual directory listing (ls) revealed two files: allowed.userlist and allowed.userlist.passwd.

    Extraction: These files were retrieved using the get command.

    Findings: * allowed.userlist contained a list of valid system usernames (e.g., admin).

        allowed.userlist.passwd contained the corresponding cleartext passwords.

4. Web Directory Brute Forcing

To find where to use the stolen credentials, a directory brute-force attack was performed using Gobuster.

    Command: gobuster dir -u http://<target_ip> -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/common.txt -x php,html

    Key Finding: The scan identified a login.php page (Status: 200).

5. Exploitation & Access

The credentials extracted from the FTP server were tested against the discovered /login.php portal.

    Result: Successful authentication as the administrative user.

    Outcome: Redirected to an internal dashboard where the system flag was displayed in the header.

6. Remediation Recommendations

    Disable Anonymous FTP: If FTP is required, strictly enforce authenticated access with strong passwords.

    Use Secure Protocols: Replace FTP with SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol) to ensure all data and credentials are encrypted in transit.

    Principle of Least Privilege: Do not store sensitive files (like password lists) on services accessible to the public network.
